[THUNDER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> My name is Syma Kharal, and
I'm a divine feminine expert
and author.
This path was maybe
not the likely one
for me growing up in a very
religious upbringing where
the feminine was so oppressed,
was denied, was even punished
and condemned.
So I have come onto this path
through my own life journey
of reclaiming my divine
feminine power, of embarking
on this journey of deep healing
with the goddesses that started
for me at the age of
13 because of having
to heal a lot of
childhood traumas
that created post-traumatic
stress disorder, so much
deep wounding and
pain for me sexually,
spiritually, and emotionally.
And even while I was so
blessed to have access
to therapy in my high
school, it required
for me learning
about coming home to
and healing with the
divine feminine in order
to release, heal, and
alchemize all my past pain,
to reclaim my power
and to liberate myself,
to let those old identities
die and allow myself
to be rebirthed into my
truth, into my full power,
into the full spectrum of
my divine feminine gifts.
That ended up not only
transforming myself first,
but they empowered me
to transform my life,
to clear patterns that
were in my especially
feminine line for
generations, and to birth
a whole new way of being a woman
in the world and in my family
and then on this path of
leading and liberating women
into reclaiming their
divine feminine power
and living and creating
their most abundant feminine,
flourishing lives as goddesses.
[SPIRITUAL MUSIC]
Because of the traumas that
I experienced, specifically,
unfortunately with
the masculine,
this was during some
years in my childhood
when we were in Pakistan.
Otherwise, I was born and
raised mostly in Canada.
And the trauma showed
up for me as deep fear,
being scared all the time.
I internalized the guilt, like
I was wrong and I was faulty.
It was just a complete fear of
the masculine on every level.
And so just as a woman, for
me to come into wholeness,
it required that I learn about,
remember the divine feminine.
It was a path of healing
and transformation,
and the divine feminine alchemy
is not afraid of the dark.
And the darkness
for me was actually
acknowledging the rage
that I experienced
or that was in response and
giving myself space, rituals,
permission to feel
the full grief,
to release eventually
that guilt and shame.
And I met what we call the
power of the dark goddess,
truly got to see the
power in facing my pain.
And what was so beautiful
was feeling held and safe
in this space with
the divine feminine,
with the goddesses, with
the dark goddesses of what
we will call the
underworld, which is really
our own subconscious and
those shadow parts of us
that we can be really
afraid to face.
And then it was like
Kuan Yin, Mother Mary,
these goddesses of forgiveness.
That was the purification
part of releasing
the pain, of cleansing it away.
And as part of the
healing on the other side,
going from the darkness
into the light,
it was embodying Aphrodite,
Hathor, Osun, these goddesses
who are goddesses
of the body temple
and remind us women that our
sexuality, our bodies are ours.
And reclaiming that for myself,
releasing all the experience
that was exploitative
and abusive for me,
and coming to the holiness
and the sovereignty
of my body, my sexuality, my
power as mine that I took back
was so healing for me, first
as a woman and then also,
eventually, in healing
with the masculine,
being only available to the
healthy masculine in my life
and manifesting and receiving
my beautiful husband who
is the embodiment of the
enlightened, awakened,
heart-centered,
healthy masculine.
So I'm sad that
those things happened
for me and for all women
who experienced that,
but at the same time, I'm
really grateful for the way
that it helped me
to come into a place
of so much feminine
empowerment in my body
and my heart and my soul.
So it was this beautiful journey
of meeting this full range
of feminine power that I
connected through as goddesses
on my journey that helped me.
And it was so life
changing and so powerful.
It became a devotional path and
a way of being, not just living,
but being for me that
ended up becoming
a way of teaching and serving.
And so now I get to teach the
ways of ancient, timeless,
goddess, divine feminine wisdom
to women all over the world.
[PIANO]
Especially when we go
through trauma in our life,
energetically, it stays in us.
For me, I felt this on a very
energetically cellular level.
Especially as a woman, our
wombs, they're like sponges.
It soaked up all that pain.
But it doesn't matter
what we have been through,
what the divine feminine
offers all of us
is wisdom, gift,
tools, and practices
to heal through anything and
not just heal through it,
but through what I have learned,
what I have lived and practiced
and teach, the process of
divine feminine alchemy,
where we go through
the phases of the death
of our old identities.
Truly facing our pain.
A lot of beautiful masculine
teachings and healing practices,
as an example, they will
teach us to observe our pain,
but they'll remind us that
you're not your emotion,
you're not your past,
you're not your experience.
And so just detach from it,
and we distance ourselves.
And if that helps
us, that's beautiful.
But what I have found, and this
could be helpful for all of us,
is that the feminine,
as an example,
in the healing process,
especially, she grieves with us.
She lets us fall apart.
She lets us descend into
the rock bottom, deepest,
darkest depths of the
underworld where we are just,
as goddess Inanna was in
her story, naked and raw
and bowed low.
And there she will
grieve with us.
And what happens here
is for all of us,
in our healing journey with the
feminine, is full permission.
You don't just observe.
You feel everything
to the fullest.
You process it.
And the other tool in
practice, the feminine
offers us specifically
around healing is somatic.
It's body.
It's processing and releasing
the emotional trauma,
the trapped energy
in physical ways.
So part of this for
me and my journey
involves, when I was doing
a lot of healing work,
physically shaking out, creating
a safe and sacred space for me
to rage, to cry, to
scream, and to know
that that was safe and sacred
and necessary for my healing.
The divine feminine
can take us when
we learn the journey of
divine feminine alchemy
to not run away from our
trauma, not detach from it,
but to actually be in its fires.
And in its fires,
we are rebirthed.
There's a myth of the phoenix
that rises from her own ashes.
And there's a Hawaiian
goddess, the goddess Pele
who is the volcano.
So a lot of times, I think
of the feminine offering
as healing with the
fires that purify us.
And then, when
the lava cools, it
becomes a fertile,
rich, black soil
for the beautiful Hawaiian,
Polynesian islands
to be birthed.
And I have found in
my journey and what
I guide women through is
that, actually, through facing
the deepest depths and being in
the fires of our pain, our rage,
our grief, through
a beautiful process,
we come out on the other
side cleansed and rebirthed.
So the physical
rituals of actually,
whether it was crying or raging,
dancing, shaking, releasing,
sometimes it was a physical
ritual, like writing all
my emotions, very raw to
a person who had abused me
and just writing everything
unfiltered, swearing, raging.
Here there was no
graceful forgiveness.
Give the other cheek.
It was like, ugh!
And just being very
honest because the goddess
gives us that permission,
the dark goddess.
And then burning that letter
and burning sacred herbs
and playing primal
music like drums.
Letting all that
out, I could feel
the energy of the past
releasing from my body.
And then I would, as an example,
part of a healing ritual,
just lay on the Earth
and let everything settle
and reintegrate, and then
maybe take a bath with sea salt
and rose oil and special oils
with an Aphrodisian statue
and goddess chants.
And that was replenishing.
And whatever we release,
then we open space,
and we want to replenish.
So then it was like
filling myself up
with the radiance and the
beauty and the sensuality
of the goddess.
So it required for me
and for all the women
that I work with,
we especially need--
we're very physical,
sensual beings.
And the goddesses, the divine
feminine wisdom offers all of us
these rituals to process,
to heal, to renew,
to rebirth on a very
physical level that
can be so life changing
and transformational.
And through this rebirth, we
not only take our power back,
but all our wounding,
it gets alchemized
into our wisdom, our growth,
our evolution, our power.
And like goddess Inanna
herself, who rises and becomes
the rebirth queen
of Earth and heaven,
we take our traumas, our wounds,
our past, and alchemize them
into a new beginning
for ourselves,
rooted in the foundation of
our wisdom and our power.
[SPIRITUAL MUSIC]
Something that's
very powerful and fun
about being in feminine
energy is that the way
that it balances the masculine,
the masculine loves knowledge,
to learn, and to know.
That's its beautiful gift
around masculine wisdom.
But the feminine what she says,
OK, now you know this, now let's
be it.
So she invites us to
take our knowledge
and to become it through
embodiment, through practice.
So, for example, we can
learn about being present.
We can read all the books around
being more present and grounded.
The feminine says, let's
go take a walk in nature.
Let's take your shoes off.
Let's feel the grass.
Let's smell.
What she does, on
a very simple way
to connect with the embodiment
experience of the feminine,
is coming into our five senses.
Whether it's your coffee,
just the day-to-day things
we already do, and to smell,
touch, taste, fully experience
everything and to go from
the head into the senses,
into the body into being.
This is where we get to
experience the feminine and life
at its fullest, which the
goddess, the divine feminine
celebrates, instead of
just keeping it up here.
It just shifts the
energy from our heads
into our hearts and our
bodies and our life.
And one of the misconceptions
with feminine energy
is that it's so soft
that it can be passive.
So because it's thought
that the masculine energy is
the active and dynamic
one, so the misconception
is that what balances that is
feminine energy that's passive.
But actually, it's not passive.
It is receptive.
And in fact, also, feminine
energy is dynamic and active.
She's a cycle.
So whereas masculine energy can
be more like waves, or linear,
the feminine energy is cyclical.
And part of her
cycle is creation.
We look at Mother
Earth, and she has
her seasons where she
is in spring, where
she's in summer, fall, winter.
So receptivity is
not being passive.
It's allowing ourselves to
become still to slow down
long enough to receive.
Sometimes, receptivity
can be like intuition.
You get that aha moment.
Or if we're, let's say too
much in our masculine energy,
we are trying to
figure something out,
problem solve, make our
list, pros and cons,
and we can just feel stuck.
And maybe we've all had
that moment where we just
let go, took a
break, took a walk,
took a shower, played with
our dog, got some fresh air,
and then, suddenly, ah,
we have that aha moment.
So that, we may say, was we
were in our feminine energy.
We weren't being
passive, but simply
by giving ourselves
permission to slow down,
we received that aha.
So receptive energy is actually
very magical, and all of us
get to access that.
[PEACEFUL MUSIC]
What's so beautiful is all of
us have the divine feminine
and the divine masculine in us.
And I'd love to share
for us to understand
how these beautiful energies
can unite together however we
identify-- it's beyond gender.
So the divine
feminine, I'll take us
through a journey of
our energy centers
because it's so multifaceted.
So at the root level,
the divine feminine
is our connection to the earth.
We call that force Shakti,
and the divine masculine force
is Prana.
And really, this is
our life force energy
that we all connect to by
our connection to the Earth,
by being present
here in our life,
and even on a very
practical level,
feeling our feet
connected to the Earth
and feeling that we are
one with this life force
that animates all things,
that takes the formless
and brings it into form, that
brings life into everything.
Then as we move up
into what we call
the sacral chakra,
this energy center,
the feminine energy is
fertility, creativity, pleasure,
receptivity.
And masculine energy is also--
it's more penetrative,
shall we say.
So the feminine is a chalice.
She receives, she
calls in, she draws in.
And the masculine, shall we
say, is like this wand energy.
It's also very potent and
creative, but it's more--
it's a more focused,
creative energy.
And the feminine is like
this more flowy dance,
creative energy.
When we come up to
the solar plexus,
this is where the
masculine can actually
be very naturally centered.
So this is our power.
And this is what I find,
especially working with women,
is actually an area that we need
to hone in and cultivate more,
the connection to our power.
And this is our inner sun.
Many cultures
identify the masculine
with the energy of the sun,
the feminine with the energy
of the moon and the Earth.
But we all have this energy,
and that is radiance, regalness
and will and creation.
And that divine masculine
energy, it's the noble warrior.
It's being triumphant,
persistent, and persevering.
And when we get to the
heart, the feminine/masculine
meet as our love, gratitude,
wisdom, and faith at our throat.
This is our expression.
It's inspiration,
beauty, expression.
And at our third eye, feminine
is like the intuition.
And then the masculine would
be the focus and the discipline
to stay single-pointed focus.
So together, they create magic,
the feminine/masculine energies.
And then finally, when
we come to the top,
the feminine actually can be
both heavenly enlightenment
and all the beauty
and riches of heaven.
And also, what's really
magical about the feminine
is she's like the womb.
There are goddesses who are
the void and nothingness,
pure stillness, pure silence.
This is where we access through
that quiet and solitude,
intuition.
And with the divine masculine,
it's god, it's heaven,
it's enlightenment, it's
liberation, it's moksha,
it's spiritual
illumination and wisdom.
So we get to celebrate
and honor and embrace
both of these energies dancing
through us in sacred union.
[PIANO]
The divine feminine has--
it's here.
It's always been here.
And since ancient, primitive
times, our most ancient statues,
carvings in caves honor
the life force, the power
of the divine feminine,
especially when we were deeply
connected to nature in all
of her cycles in our life,
our livelihood
depended on nature.
And until today, through
Indigenous cultures,
through some of the
major religions,
the divine feminine is present.
She's always there
and always accessible,
whether it's through the earth,
whether it's as a goddess,
whether she's providing
blessings of abundance
or enlightenment, awakening
all over the world
and also inside of us.
I say the queendom of heaven
or the goddess is within us.
She's been around and one of the
ways to really connect with her
and honor her is
there's this archetype
of the triple goddess,
the maiden, the mother,
and the crone.
And within that, she is
present through all cultures
in some form, in some
name, in some way.
As an example, in the
maiden, she is spring.
We can say spring is
the goddess in nature.
She is Hathor in ancient Egypt.
She is our celebration
of the feminine energy
of sensuality, fertility,
creativity, inspiration, beauty.
But also what's very
beautiful, goddesses
have been revered in the
maiden form as virgins.
So goddesses like Athena,
Artemis, the virgin archetype
is a celebration not as much
about a woman's sexuality
as much as her wholeness, that
this is a woman who is virginal.
She is whole and
complete unto herself.
So the goddess is
very multidimensional,
and she is celebrated through
all cultures and traditions,
even within a
singular archetype,
in very multifaceted ways.
And the mother archetype
is a celebration
of physical motherhood, of womb,
of ovulation, of the full moon,
of summer, of abundance.
And she's also the celebration
of the feminine life
force of creation,
manifestation, generosity.
And then, when we come
to the dark goddess,
the crone archetype,
this archetypal energy
is the energy of winter,
of the waning moon,
of darkness, of
retreat, of silence.
And it can be so multilayered.
Here, we have also the warrior,
the rebellious Lilith archetype,
the dark goddess,
the woman who is free
and liberated, the high
priestess, the magician,
the sorceress, the witch.
It's so rich that,
even within something
like the triple
goddess archetype,
all cultures and traditions have
feminine energy and gifts that
are celebrated in a
very multifaceted way.
So how we can celebrate
and embrace and receive
from the divine
feminine is to remember
that she is the full spectrum.
So one way that we can look
at this is the three realms.
There's the realm, the
goddess of the underworld.
This is our darkness.
This is embracing sacred rage.
This is healing our
traumas and grief.
This is facing the darkest
depths of our shadow,
of our subconscious,
of really being
guided by the queens
of the underworld.
They're called in other
traditions the queens
or the goddesses of
death and the underworld.
And so knowing that
even the darkest parts
of our psyche, our lives are
sacred, then the realm of earth,
the goddess celebrates
everything that is earthly.
All the beauty of earthly
life, from our sexuality,
our sensuality to luxury
to art and poetry and food.
The goddess is found in all
the pleasures and the abundance
and beauty of our bodies
and of our earthly life.
So this is the realm of
the goddesses of the Earth,
of Mother Earth.
And then finally, the
spectrum of heaven,
queens of heaven,
mother of heaven.
This is our spirituality.
This is our oneness
with all of life.
This is our divine wisdom,
our enlightenment, our power
to manifest and create and
birth miracles, manifestations,
from the formless into form.
So it's really beautiful
when we remember and reclaim
all the different realms
and the full spectrum
of the divine feminine.
And it's also
important to remember
that talking about
the divine feminine
is a celebration of the energy,
the life force, the wisdom,
and the power of the feminine
that we all have within us.
We're not separate from the
goddess or the divine feminine.
This energy, this power,
this life force, the wisdom,
all its magic is who we are.
It's part of us.
It's inside of us.
So if we can shift away from
that criticism of the feminine
into just realizing that we
are one with this life force,
and if we can embrace
this, we actually
open ourselves to all
of its magic and gifts.
[SPIRITUAL MUSIC]
The feminine is so
powerful in all her aspects
that, sometimes, we can be
afraid to fully embrace her.
Even while she is revered and
worshipped on a human level,
we can still be afraid,
whether it's men being afraid
of the feminine power
or women being afraid
of their own feminine power.
And the fear can
be when we are not
connected to our own truth
and our own inherent power,
then anything that we
perceive as a threat to that,
we want to oppress.
And unfortunately, when it
comes to the divine feminine
and women's power, women's
wisdom, the wounded masculine,
the shadow masculine, not the
divine and healthy masculine,
but the ones who rule
the world, in order
for them to be in power,
it's come at the cost
of exploiting others.
And the feminine power
was perceived as a threat
to the rise of patriarchy and
the rule and control of men.
So for many reasons,
different values
came through to shun and
oppress and diminish and condemn
feminine power.
So, for example, when
property is handed down
from the male line, it was
important to preserve a woman's
sexuality and virginity
so that it goes
through the actual male heirs.
So it comes down to
money, wealth, property,
and maintaining
this that ended up
being connected to
women's reproduction,
our sexuality now becoming
under the control of the church,
of religions, of male
authorities that we're still
struggling with in today's age.
So for women, it's
a wake-up call.
It means that we really,
once we wake up to our power,
it's going to wake us
up to examine our life
and where we have given our
power away, where we're not
being true to ourselves, where
we are compromising and settling
and sacrificing.
And so it can be a little
scary to come back and say,
I am a powerful being, and I
reclaim my full feminine power,
and I'm ready to
be all of who I am.
I think there's a lot of--
as women, we've inherited
a lot of fear and shame
of wanting too much,
of being too much, of having
a voice, of having it all.
I say now, in my world,
when women work with me,
we get be and have it
all from our feminine.
So it's my passion to
bring back the goddess.
We all have the goddess
within us, and it's time.
She is ready to be awakened
in our world and in us
individually so
that we can bring
the healing and the balance
that's needed in a collective
and then, especially for
us as women, to really rise
into our power and
the full spectrum
of our divine feminine gifts.
And the divine
feminine, actually,
finding her power
benefits everybody.
There's no threat.
There's only more
growth, more evolution,
and more good for everyone.
So I'm hopeful
that, as we release
our fear of feminine power
and begin to embrace it,
that's going to
create so much balance
and that we're birthing
collectively a new paradigm.
[MUSIC PLAYING]